# The-Vaguely-Parable
A choose-your-own-adventure game where your voice is the controller!

The zip files represent various development stages that were easy to access for comparison purposes.



### The Code
All of the code exists directly within the `Code` folder. This was done in a rush, so proper segregation of files was not performed.

The `Dictionaries`, `Grammars`, and `Thesauri` folders contain auto-generated content that is pre-built for the games release. 
`Thesauri` contains `Selection Texts.txt`, which would be generated by a game designer. 
The first word in a list is the title for that list, and is the in-game selection option. 
The following phrases are expected alternatives the user could say. 
The more times a phrase is repeated, the more that phrase is associated with that title.
Using these words and word phrases, a set of related words are scraped from `http://powerthesaurus.org` by running `Selection_Matching.py` by itself. 
This is done to further expand the variety of answers captured by a user that can be considered valid.

`Dictionaries` contains dictionary files with sets of valid words, and how to search for them. 
This is used by the offline speech to text engine, Sphinx.

`Grammars` contains grammar rules, which are deprecated in the main program due to performance issues. 



### Story Segments
The nature of choose-your-own-adventure stories involves branching pathways. 
To allow authors this freedom, without creating an unmaintainable mess, files can be nested inside of folders that are prefixed with a code and a closing bracket, e.g. `5)`.
Files follow the same rule. As such `hello) world.txt` is a valid file name, whose ID is `hello`. 
At the first level, the program expects to find `Init).txt`, which points to the first file in the story to be read.

Each folder must contain a `DB).csv` file. 
These contain the relationships for all files in the current directory in a `Current_File | Next_File | Selection_Criteria` format.
The same current file can appear multiple times, to represent each of the possible paths from that file.



### In-Story Code
Story and `DB).csv` files can contain limited amounts of code within them, greatly expanding the number of possibilities available to a stories author.
These can created by either starting a line with `#`, or if code is required in the middle of a sentence (e.g. a counter or a users name), then it simply has a space before it, ` #`.
Please see `Default_Commands.py` for a list of possible commands, and how they function. 
Or, if you'd prefer examples in-situ, then feel free to explore the files within `Story Segments`.



### Play The Vaguely Parable
To play The Vaguely Parable in a command window, please compile it on your computer first by running `setup.py`. 
This will generate a `.exe` file for usage. 
Log files are generated during gameplay for debugging purposes, and to improve reader-author feedback.
Textual input is not possible without software modification at this time, so please ensure a functional microphone is attached whilst playing.
Please also ensure you play in a quiet environment to reduce the error rate.

Enjoy!



